Good morning, Calvary family.
It's so good to be with you this morning, so good to be able to still worship with you this morning.
I was kind of praying just about our time together.
The Lord reminded me of that very fact that it has been about four years since I've stood kind of on this platform.
Specifically, it was September 12th of 2021.
that all of you commissioned our launch team to pursue ministry in downtown Grand Rapids as an dwelling community church.
And so as I was kind of thinking about this, I'm just like, okay, I need to kind of drop a really nice eloquent kind of speech to Calvary to kind of say, and I'm trying to wrestle and think through all the stuff in my head.
And me and Laura, we have a really nice tight relationship and he just basically likes sun.
Just keep it short and keep it simple.
because I am a long-winded preacher, so I could just do this alone by itself.
So I'll allow me to say on behalf of myself and the community of Indwelling Community Church, Calvary Church, I just want to tell you thank you.
Thank you for your love, thank you for your prayer, thank you for your acts of generosity.
Thank you for simply just being who you are.
I, Nordes and Dwelling, take for granted the investment you made into us, and we are grateful, privileged,
to be a daughter church of Calvary Church.
And so on behalf of Indwelling Calvary, thank you so much for simply being who you are.
Through many dangers, toils and snares, I have already come to this grace that has brought me safely thus far, and grace will lead me home.
We just sung this together.
This is the third verse of the hymn, Amazing Grace.
And this third verse really that of the whole entire hymn depicts that of a story.
A story of an individual who stands in the present and looks back over every danger, toil, and snare.
Grace has brought them through.
They stand victorious over, acknowledging that the same grace that has brought them safely thus far.
will be a grace that continues to lead them forward.
That the song Amazing Grace Church depicts that of a story.
The reality is that if you and I actually took the opportunity to look back over our lives, no matter how young or how old you may be, even if you just want to look back over 2025, I think all of us in this room could echo the heart of Amazing Grace.
That there have been some dangers and some toils
and some snares looking back at the grace of God medicine that we stand today victorious over.
And the same grace that carried us thus far will carry us, carry you and I into the unknown of all that 2026 presents before us.
Just like the song or the hymn, Amazing Grace, you and I, we got a story.
So I want to invite you, if you have a copy of the Word of God, whether in print, electronically, I want you to join me if you would in Psalm 107.
Psalm 107, we'll be rooting ourselves this morning.
And within this particular Psalm, we will see that of the story in which we do have in the encouragement that comes in light of it.
While you're kind of flipping the Psalm 107, allow me to give you an eye a little bit of context for us.
Psalm 107 situates itself in the very place where you and I find ourselves this morning.
And that's within the very temple of God or the house of worship.
The people within the house of worship, the Israelites, they have a lot on their minds and their hearts.
Because for just a short time ago, they found themselves in exile in Babylon because of their sin.
Since that very moment, after the 70 years I've concluded they have come back into their land.
They've came back into Jerusalem.
and they have rebuilt their fortified wall.
They have restored their very lives and they have rebuilt the very temple in which they stand in this moment.
Someone from amongst the gathering begins to speak the very words in which we find representative of verse one of Psalm 107.
Verse one of Psalm 107 reads, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good.
His love endures forever.
This gathering these people are having in the temple
or in the house of worship was not just to be some casual gathering amongst family and friends.
This was to be a worship service.
This was to be a time of rendering thanks unto God for His goodness and for His love that endures.
I mean, the mere fact that they're back in their land and they're standing in a rebuilt temple evidences God's goodness in their lives.
But it also evidences His unfailing or His enduring love.
This word love in the original language in the Hebrew is this word hessid.
It speaks of the steadfast loving kindness of God that meets people where they are.
It's a word that emphasizes God's hand upon those who are his manifested as love or mercy bestowed every moment of their lives.
Think of his love in correlation to what the prophet Jeremiah says in Lamentations chapter three, verses 22 and 23 there.
He says, because of the Lord's great love or mercy,
We are not consumed for his compassion's never fail.
That they are new every morning.
Great is your faithfulness.
That this love, this mercy, this compassion, it is new every single morning.
For those who are of God's, this is new love and mercy that is there.
That this love, this mercy, it ain't left over.
It's not stale.
It doesn't have the capacity to run out before.
Everyone who is of God's, there is love and mercy that meets them in every moment of their lives.
Which means, Calvary Church, that our good and gracious God has a whole lot more mercy than you and I have mess.
May that be encouragement to somebody who's in the room, someone watching online, who may look and think of their lives as one of a mess.
Maybe sin has came through, sin has damage, and you struggle to understand how a God so good and gracious could love you, he does.
And the love in which he has is so much greater, so much stronger, so much better than the mess you and I actually commit.
And so these people, they are in the temple of God.
They are in the house of worship, giving thanks and worship unto God for his goodness and his unfailing love.
They take it one step further when you look at verses two and three.
It says, let the redeemed of the Lord tell their story.
Those he redeemed from the hand of the foe.
Those he gathered from the lands, from the east and the west, from the north and from the south.
The very means by which they are to render thanksgiving and worship on the God was to give or to share a testimony.
That if these are people who have truly been redeemed, that they are benefactors of God's goodness and this mercy that endures forever.
If they've been rescued by the powerful foe of Babylon, then they are to be a people who tell the story, who tell the story of the dangers, toils, and snares that tell us the story of God's goodness and his amazing love.
When I was thinking, praying, processing through our texts this week, I kept having flashbacks and images of being a little kid and going to an old school testimony service.
My particular culture growing up, you would get up and you would be at church around 939-45 because that's when Sunday school started.
Roughly around 10-30, 10-45 is Sunday school ends and church begins 11 o'clock.
130 rows around, you're still in church in this moment.
Two o'clock rows around, you are finally done with church and I thank God for indwelling community church who is probably out of church right now.
Praise the Lord.
And so if you're lucky, you might be able to get a bite to eat because, you know, when you get a church, you got to talk and people got to catch up.
Like you ain't, I mean, you just saw them last week.
You probably saw them Wednesday for Bible study.
Anywho, you're talking, you're doing it.
You might be able to catch some food before you come back to church at four o'clock for the evening service.
Yeah, it was rough.
But you come back for the four o'clock service and this would be the service.
And you find some of the same type of liturgy that you will find in the morning service.
You have a call to worship.
There's some time of worship and singing.
Someone may get up and share an announcement.
But at the point in time when the preacher would come up to open the Word of God and to exhort, there will be no preacher and there will be no Bible that's opened.
Rather, there will be a single microphone in the middle of the room where people from the congregation would come, testify, and the body will be encouraged by the wonderful works of God.
When you poke into Psalm 107, there is no priest opening up the Word of God to share testimony.
But what you do have are individuals from the community coming forward and telling the story.
Telling the story of God's goodness and his unfailing or his enduring love.
We won't take the opportunity to read all of Psalm 107 as you'll soon begin to see like this repeated pattern throughout.
But what you and I will begin to see is that there is roughly four individuals representing four groups of people who will come up and simply tell the story, essentially testify of God's goodness.
For example, if you look at verses four through nine in Psalm 107, as we can imagine being a fly on the wall in the very house of worship,
And as they're actually in there, we can imagine someone comes up from among the congregation representing a group of people whom we can call or label the wanderers.
So an individual comes up, he's going to begin to testify, tell the story.
On behalf of a group of people called the wanderers, and that's found in verses four through nine in the text.
I'll read it for us.
It says, some wandered in desert wastelands finding no way to a city where they could settle.
They were hungry and thirsty, and their lives ebbed away.
Then they cried out to the Lord in their trouble and he delivered them from their distress.
He let them by straightway to a city where they could settle.
Let them give thanks to the Lord for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds for mankind.
For he satisfies the thirsty and fills the hungry with good things.
The person stands up against the testifier, begins to tell the story.
The person essentially begins to say that, hey, we were people who were trying to find a city to settle in.
And as we were trusting in our own wisdom and our own knowledge and trying to figure out a place to go, we found ourselves in a wilderness in which we could not escape.
This very wilderness posed great threat to us.
I mean, the conditions were bad.
There was no food and drink.
Even the wildlife that was present posed threat to us.
As we kept moving, we kept getting deeper and deeper in the wilderness and it felt as if death was the likely result for us.
But then the person testifying, sharing a story says that they cried out to the Lord from their trouble and he delivered them from their distress.
The good and gracious God comes and provides direction for them, moving them to a place, to a city where they can find refuge, where they can find resource and where they can find rest.
And this was praise worthy under them as they say in verse number nine, that God he satisfies the thirsty and he fills the hungry with good things.
The very reality is that when you think of this testimony, when you think of this story, it's really the same kind of testimony their ancestors could also echo and speak as they escape from Egyptian slavery.
Because it was upon escaping Egyptian slavery that they too found themselves in a wilderness, a wilderness where there was the absence of food and our wilderness that posed great threat, a wilderness where attack could happen.
But there was their good and gracious God, giving them provision, giving them protection, guiding them to a city in Jerusalem, the Promised Land, where there was resource, where there was refuge and where there was rest.
It essentially communicates then and it communicates now of God that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
Or as a gospel artist, Ty Tribute used to say in one of the songs, if he did it before, he can do it again.
Same God right now, same God back then.
He is one who is worthy of your trust.
No wonder they conclude this particular story or testimony by saying, thank the Lord for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds towards mankind.
We can imagine this person sits down, a second person begins to stand up representing a group of individuals whom we can label and call the prisoners.
Second person begins to stand representing a group of prisoners, represents verses 10 through 16 in the text.
We won't read this, but you'll see a common theme from what we've already kind of walked through.
You'll see the mentioning of distress, you'll see the cry out from distress, the Lord's deliverance from said distress, and the rendering of thanksgiving in light of the distress.
Here this person begins to stand up, begins to testify, begins to tell the story and says that, hey, we were a people who found ourselves in utter darkness and in bondage or in chains, iron-type chains.
We found ourselves in bondage and iron-type chains.
This was a physical bondage.
These people found themselves in because they're really enslaved.
They're in bondage to Babylon.
And around Babylon, the city of Babylon, there were these gates made of bronze and of iron.
This was a physical imprisonment.
But this also was a spiritual imprisonment or bondage.
Because this person testifying, tell us a story, says, hey, we were a people who intentionally disobeyed and rebelled against God.
Wasn't an accident?
Wasn't a mistake?
We intentionally did this.
And as a consequence of us sitting in this way, he is one God who subjected us to bitter labor, and he made us stumble to humble us.
We felt within ourselves that our current predicament, it was going to result in death.
But just like the previous individual, in the previous group, they cried out to the Lord from their trouble, and the Lord delivered them from their distress.
The Lord comes breaking the change of bondage upon them.
taking them from darkness to now God's marvelous light.
Removing them from being in bondage to now experiencing the freedom that comes with being a follower of God.
And they likewise conclude, thank the Lord for His unfailing love and His wonderful deeds towards mankind.
We can imagine the third person now begins to stand up, and this third person standing up, he represents a group of individuals that we could simply call and label the sick.
Call and label them the sick, representative of verses 17 through 22.
This person stands up amongst the congregation and says, hey, we were just like the previous people that spoke.
We too disobeyed and rebelled against God.
Was it an accident?
Was it a mistake?
This is something that we did.
Except for us, we didn't find ourselves in iron change or in bondage like this.
For us, we loathed food.
Especially we were unable to eat.
We would see it and we would not have an appetite.
We could not eat.
And as a consequence, day by day is going by, we would experience this malnourishment that we knew was going to lead to our death.
But then they cried out to the Lord from their trouble and the Lord delivered them from their distress.
And whereas in the two kind of two previous stories, you kind of get this image of God physically doing something, you know, leading his people out of the wilderness to a desired city.
loosening and breaking the chains.
We kind of get this imagery of God physically doing something.
Here, as it relates to the sick, God doesn't physically do something.
All God does is speak a word.
The very power and the authority of the words in which he speaks heals those who are actually sick.
May that be encouragement for you, Calvary, that sometimes when you find yourself in a current predicament, all you need is one word from God to change that whole entire situation.
I know we take high the words of positions and that's great.
I know we take high the words of friends who mean well.
I know we take high the words of those in the political and those of the news fear.
But in the day and time in which we need we don't need a word from someone from the news or from a politician.
What we need is a word from God that can change everything around us.
Help me Holy Ghost.
And what's even great about this is that as they as the rendering this Thanksgiving it says in verse number 22.
It says, let them sacrifice thank offerings and tell of his works with songs of joy.
So part of the Thanksgiving is they want to render a fake offering.
Church, that is so incredibly intentional.
Because see, a thank offering, during the thank offering, kind of around the time of the thank offering, the priests and the worshipers at the time of the thank offering, once everything was kind of said and done, would come together
and they would have a communal meal together celebrating the wonderful works of God.
Meeting the people who were once sinful and experiencing malnourishment because of their sin and unable to eat are now people tasting life-giving nourishment once more all because God came through and rescued and delivered his people.
Thank the Lord for his unfailing love.
and his wonderful deeds towards mankind.
Church, there's one more person that begins to stand up and begin to speak now.
He's representing a group of people in whom we could call or label the sailors.
This is representative of verses 23 through 32.
Verse number 23 says, some went out on the sea in ships.
They were merchants on the mighty waters.
This kind of language mighty waters there.
It's really speaking of or conveying the idea in the ancient Near East of that of the seas and the waters being agents of chaos.
But again, these are merchants.
These are sailors.
These are trained professionals.
They have the wisdom.
They have the knowledge to navigate anything the seas can throw their way.
That's until they encountered a seas and a storm unlike anything they've ever encountered before.
The person testifying, telling a story begins to share that God sent a violent windstorm their way.
A violent storm upon the seas that was so chaotic, that was so severe that their wisdom, their knowledge, their expertise couldn't do anything.
I mean, they go and say that this is so severe and so chaotic that at times they felt they were as high on the ways in which they could touch the heavens.
And at times they felt so low that they could touch the depths of the earth.
Not my words, their words, they say at times we felt like drunkards, trying to navigate through the chaotic waters of this sea.
They thought death was the likely result for them.
But they called upon God in their trouble and he delivered them from their distress.
And the very one who spoke the loudness of the storm now stills it to a whisper.
And he carries his people to a desired destination absent of their own human effort, thought, or wisdom.
Thank the Lord for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds towards mankind.
If you keep reading the rest of the Psalm, really it is that of the community of faith pondering the very works of God.
and how he navigates and handles the wicked by how he extends his love and his kindness towards those who are his.
All with the very purpose to exclaim of God's goodness and of his love that continues to endure.
When you see in the text church, people of God testified.
People of God in the text, they told the story.
They told the story of the rescue from a powerful foe.
But what was incredibly interesting if you happen to catch it was really if you think about this, this is one movement, one act of redemption told from four different perspectives or lenses.
Remember, the context here is that a Babylonian exile and them being rescued and essentially redeemed from that.
So this is one moment, one act of redemption.
And as we walk through the text, we've seen four different lenses, four different perspectives.
And so one movement, one act of redemption, told and shared from four different perspectives or lenses.
Can I tell you church that there is still one movement and one act of redemption?
One movement, one act of redemption that can be told from numerous perspectives and numerous lenses.
Because just like the people in the text, you and I, we got a powerful foe.
A powerful foe that can cause you and I to be wanderers walking in a wilderness.
A powerful foe that keeps you and I in bondage to chains.
a powerful foe that makes you and I sick, a powerful foe that causes life to be chaotic just like the winds the sailors endured, and that powerful foe is that of sin.
You and I church, we are born into a broken and a sinful world.
You and I are born as sinners and as lives lived absent of Jesus Christ.
We encounter life as a wanderer wandering in our sin.
We encounter life as prisoners in bondage to sin.
We encounter life being spiritually sick.
We encounter life experiencing the chaotic waves of life because of sin and death is our result absent of Jesus Christ.
but from the very beginning of pages of Scripture until present day.
As humanity has acknowledged that there is nothing under their own strength, nothing under their own wisdom, nothing under their own knowledge, you can't throw money at this thing, you can't throw anything else at this when humanity has admitted this very fact.
From the very beginning pages of Scripture until present day, humanity has cried out from their trouble.
and the Lord in his goodness and his kindness and his steadfast love has delivered us from our very distress.
The Lord in his kindness and his love towards us gifted the world his beloved son Jesus Christ in the flesh to identify with us.
And as Jesus comes and he lives and identifies with us, Jesus was and still is our great redeemer who rescues you and I from the powerful foe of sin, whose steadfast love evidences once more that his mercy is greater than our mess.
And the way by which Jesus does this church is that Jesus goes and he takes of sin that belonged to us.
Jesus is sentenced to a death that should have been our death.
Jesus is hung in a cross that perfectly fit you and I. Jesus suffers on that cross.
He dies on that cross.
But three days later, his father raises him from the dead, giving him victory over sin, death, and the grave.
And the good news, the good news is that when you and I surrender and we submit, when we give our all the Christ, when we make this profession and this confession of faith, when we say that Jesus is the Lord of our lives, the victory that Jesus has now becomes our victory church.
Meeting Church, you and I are no longer wanderers wandering in the wilderness because of sin.
No, we have the Father and we have the Son and His Word, which is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our pathway that gives us direction.
No longer are you and I prisoners, bondage to sin.
No, no, we experience the freedom that comes through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
No longer are we spiritually sick because of sin, but because of the stripes in which Jesus took for us and His shed blood, you and I,
we are healed and no longer are we like sailors enduring the chaos of ways because of sin.
No, no, we've experienced the stillness of his peace and of his forgiveness.
Hear me, Calvary Church, you are saved.
You are rescued.
You are the redeemed and you ought to tell the story.
Thought I had a church in here.
You ought to tell the story because if God has cleansed you and if He has washed you by His very blood, if He has made you new, if He has changed your life, that is a story that ought to be told.
It's not just a salvation story to tell church, but it's also a story of the many ways in which God comes in the day to day to bless our very lives, to change and to transform our very lives.
Coming in the day to day to evidence
his unfailing and enduring love for us.
So as we think of application this morning, first point of application is incredibly obvious, and I'll try better next time.
The first point of application, tell the story.
I know y'all was expecting something like mind blowing, and that's all I got, sorry.
Tell the story.
You see, your story, your story,
is so incredibly important.
It's valuable.
It's essential because your story is a part of God's redemptive plan and God's redemptive story.
And that is a story that ought to be told.
Have you ever picked up like a really, really good book, like a really good book that you just couldn't put down?
I mean, you are saturated in the characters of the book and the plot and the conflicts coming.
You want to see the resolution like if you wanted to put the book down, you couldn't because you're so immersed in it.
But then you get to the middle of the book.
Turn the page and you find a couple paragraphs scratched out in pen.
Maybe there's a couple pages missing.
Maybe there's an entire chapter missing.
Here you are.
You hold a story.
But there's aspects of the story that is missing.
See, when you refuse to tell the story and to share your story, it is as if there are portions of God's redemptive plan and story that is missing.
Hear me once more.
Your story is important.
It is essential.
It is special and it needs to be told.
Because I think oftentimes, oftentimes, you know, when maybe you're in a group of people, when you're hearing one another's testimony, maybe even of course the baptism, when you hear someone's story, and maybe a person tells their story, and it's evident that they've lived.
Like, there's been a lot of things happening in their life, and God came through and rescued them, praise God.
But then you and I allow pride to kind of seep in, or send the kind of seep in, and we begin to compare our story to that person's story.
And we begin to say that I can't tell it.
Like I don't have enough to share that I need to live a little more and do a little more and experience a little more so my story can compare to that person's story.
Can I tell you whatever story the Lord has written and is still writing is a beautiful story.
And it is a story that needs to be told.
I mean no matter if you grew up in a Christian home or you just found Jesus Christ in the beginning days of this year.
Whether you found Jesus Christ at the end of an alcohol bottle or you found Him at six years old in your Sunday school room, Sunday school class.
Whether you found Jesus on day one of that job or year 25 on that particular job, whether you found the Lord at a cancer diagnosis or with the common cold, simply church, tell the story.
Tell the story of the many ways in which God has made in your life.
tell the story of his goodness and his enduring and unfailing love.
But can I tell you, if you're gonna tell the story, if you're really gonna tell the story, you gotta care more about God's glory than your own reputation.
It's kind of an application point number two.
You gotta care more.
You gotta care more about God's glory than your own reputation.
If you look through the text, I mean,
There was some pretty heavy and significant stuff being shared.
People are talking about like, hey, I intentionally disobeyed God.
You got some people who say like, hey, we tried to trust in our own wisdom.
We tried to trust in our own strengths by navigating through a wilderness and navigating through the seas.
Like, this is some pretty heavy stuff.
But notice none of them seem to care about their reputation or what people would think about them.
Because see, I believe they understood in the text that while the story is about them, why the story includes them, the story is not about them.
Each and every one of us, God is the main character in our story.
And it's not about us, it's about making much of him.
And so if you're gonna tell the story, you're gonna care more about God's glory than your own reputation.
Or another way to saying it, if you're gonna tell the story,
Tell the whole story.
Now, I know from looking at some of you, I just lost you.
Because some of you are like Clarence, I've been rhymed with you the whole entire time.
I get it.
I got a story to tell.
I've been saved.
I've been rescued.
I've been redeemed.
I got a salvation story to tell.
Even the thing God does on the regular, I got it.
I got to tell that story.
But Clarence, if I told the whole story, like Clarence said,
If I told them the stuff I was doing, if I told them the stuff I was thinking and saying, like Clarence, look, I just got in this row.
This is my second service row.
I just got to know these people.
This is my second row, second church service family.
If I told them the whole story, they're going to boot me out this row and push me to the back.
I can't do it.
Can I tell you if
If you're someone who cares about your reputation and maybe a little bit of shame that comes with your story, the encouragement is for you to stop thinking so much of yourself and to think of God more.
To make much of God.
Because as you tell the whole story, the person the Spirit of God may lead you to maybe someone who is in a predicament you were once in.
And your very story could be the encouragement they need just to keep
If you tell the whole story, especially those people who thought they knew you from cover to cover, the very words the Holy Spirit calls you to share may be words that leads them to the very cross for salvation is found.
And perhaps you sharing the whole story in that God may continue his work he's doing in your life, that that buried down
shame, guilt, and condemnation that you've refused to let go because of how horrible that sin actually was by telling the whole story.
God can work in you, remove that, reminding you of His grace so that you truly live in the freedom that comes with being a follower of Jesus Christ.
Just don't tell the story, tell the whole story.
and make much of God.
And as we tell the story, as we hear one another's stories, kind of last application point, you and I, we will be encouraged by God's enduring love.
You've been kind of walking through this whole idea of God's love as you've been in first John chapter four of the last three to four weeks, where you've been reminded of how much God loves you.
Were you being reminded of how you can offer this gift of love back to him by means of loving one another?
You have been saturated in the love of God.
As we read Psalm 107, you can read within the pages of it that of God's love.
You can sense, you can feel his very love.
Even in kind of story two and story four with that of the prisoners and of the sailors.
And it seems like things got a little worse, that there was some fuel added to the fire.
That was God's discipline rooted and grounded in His love and mercy to bring these people back unto Him.
Hear me, Calorie, if you ever needed another piece of evidence that God loves us, listen to somebody's story.
If you ever needed another piece of evidence that God loves you, maybe as you're encountering a difficult season,
Maybe as you're dealing with that wayward child, maybe with illness or something else going on.
Maybe in the case that as you look in the mirror, you don't even love yourself.
If you ever needed another piece of evidence that God loves you, then look back over every hill in mountain he's brought you through.
Look back over the previous sickness and now you stand healed.
Look back over the previous time of chaos and how now is a season of peace.
Look back over every danger, toil, and snare.
And there, there you will find a father who through mess, who through discipline and rescue desperately loves you.
And that love that you find there is love and grace that spurs you and I forward into our very future.
You are incredibly loved by God.
And so as we think of 2026, and maybe some of you made some commitments this particular year, commitments to yourself, commitment to others, maybe even commitment to God.
My prayer for you, Calvary Church, is that one of those commitments would be simply to tell the story, to that co-worker,
to that person at the gym, to that neighbor, to that friend whomever that you would tell of that salvation story, tell of the story of the gospel, tell of how things were crazy last week, Wednesday, but now this week things are great.
Tell of the story so that with one heart and one mind and one unified voice, we could echo the same words that are found in our text.
thank the Lord for his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds towards us, mankind.